
During my research and subsequent essay, I have been able to expand my recent interest in the field of quantum computing into a tangible piece of research that shows my own personal interest in a way that conveys my own passion in a satisfying manor. Though despite this I have encountered several issues that diminish my initial aspirations for the project. However, I am still satisfied with the research I have produced despite, admittedly, not living up to my full potential.

Firstly, my rationale. This part of the project was the part I found strangely satisfying as it seemed to grant me the most freedom with how I demonstrate my own interest. Comparatively to the rest of the essay that is mostly regurgitating others work in a presentable manor. It allowed me to express my own knowledge that I can explain to others, though how understandable my explanation was leaves area for improvement. I would say that that would be my largest criticism for this part of the essay. Quantum physics is an extremely complex topic and explaining it, even in its most simple form is no simple task. There are plenty of entire books that explain just the basics so trying to compress it even further was something that I found, evidently, rather difficult. Though there is also the point of disparity of whether I should have even bothered to explain it in the first place as describing an entire area of physics may not even suffice for the criteria of a rationale. Though I do still think that it was important to include as I am aware that the majority of people are not aware of quantum computing, hence my inclusion of it.  