My reasoning behind choosing this topic lies in how I believe that our classical computers will only be able to take us so far as we tend towards tolerances in the micron level, requiring more roundabout and expensive methods of manufacturing. However, due to the nature of quantum computers, they can not only have the possibility of being even smaller, but also have completely new ways of computational arithmetic. This poses an interesting topic as the technology is still in early development and therefore several studies and technologies are still being pioneered through the efforts of tech giants such as Google and Microsoft, who believe that this technology could eventually become a part of everyday life, or at least can be used to propel certain areas of unsolved mathematical equations. However, I am aware that most people are not entirely familiar with the concept of quantum computers, so I would like to spend a few lines explaining the basics. Firstly, the word 'quantum' is used to describe the basic nature of the machines. This word comes from an area of physics that describes small *things* such as electrons or photons. This is because at at these scales, the concepts of traditional physics begin to break down, therefore resulting in the advent of a new field of physics to describe them called quantum physics. The basic concept is that, in this instance, an electron at this scale, when unobserved acts as both a wave and a particle where the nature of such a wave/particle becomes unpredictable to a certain degree (See Schrodinger's cat). The concept of quantum computers harnesses this state, taking advantage of what's called a 'superposition' where the electron can have multiple different waves when measured. Using this, the premise of quantum computers is to manipulate this superposition to result in a desired outcome. For example, a password can be cracked in a matter of milliseconds as the particles exist in a state of all possible combinations of letters at once, where the output is manipulated to be the desired outcome. Though the concept is relatively complex, the application seems to be extremely useful in deciphering highly complex mathematical conjectures that require the specific set of attributes only accessible through quantum computers. With this essay, I my aim to to asses whether the existence of quantum computers is necessary, weighing up the costs and research time and comparing it to that of traditional computing. I will do so through research of secondary sources while also gathering primary research to analyse myself. My idea to explore this topic.