
Subcultural theories discuss how crime and deviance can be caused or not caused by several factors relating to the unique norms and values of certain individuals. It discusses how the macro that includes behaviours of society as a whole and micro to analyse the behaviours at an individual level can lead to prolonged or political crime/deviance.


### Cohen
Cohen's study states that crime in young men is due to a failure in reaching society's goals, therefore resorting to things such as theft to achieve material wealth. He calls this state of being 'Status frustration' similar to what are described as NEETs. However, he also argues that this frustration is not only for material gain, but also frustration with society itself as evidenced by acts such as vandalism or destruction of goods. He claims that this is a result of failure at school, causing the boys to search for another form of validation in the form of a gangs. Within such gangs they develop a strong set of gang values, which are values opposed to those of the greater society. 

### Evaluation
Cohen's view on crime and deviance prove beneficial as it can explain crimes that don't have clear motives. It is also useful when evaluating group crimes as a whole, helping to describe the shared subcultural behaviours in criminal gangs. However, Cohen's view falls short in several different fields, for example it refuses to acknowledge the existence or behaviours of female criminal gangs, only explaining male lead gangs. Although, Miller would disagree as he claims that men commit crime to prove masculinity instead of proving trying to gain social status. Functionalist Murray would agree with Cohen as he argues that this type of crime is causes by the rise of NEETs searching for external validation as they fail to do so through traditional methods within education or employment. Other functionalist [Durkheim](Theoretical%20perspectives%20of%20crime%20and%20deviance'/Functionalism.md#Durkheim) would claim that not all crime is necessarily bad as it can act as an agent of change within a society. 


### Cloward and Ohlin
Cloward and Ohlin initially seem to agree that working class boys use crime as a form of escapism from their failures in society. However, they disagree with Cohen in the sense that he doesn't explain why different gangs respond differently and specialise in different forms of delinquency. They further developed this idea with their own views, developing specialised areas of crime within gangs. This includes the criminal subculture which uses crime to obtain material wealth. These types of gangs tend to emerge in areas of already established crime where the adults act as criminal models for the younger generation. The next type is the conflict subculture in which participants specialise in violence especially with other gangs. These groups often emerge in areas with complete lack o ant opportunities, whether it be criminal or legitimate. He also claims the retreatist subculture where members of these gangs partake in drug dealing and hustling. These subcultures form when youths 'retreat' into these areas as they cannot achieve success in either criminal or traditional society. 

### Evaluation
While Cloward and Ohlin propose what seems to be a sound evaluation, upon further evaluation seems to be somewhat flawed as in practicality, gangs can partake in more that one of the aforementioned sub categories, for example drugs and violence often go hand in hand, with one causing the other respectively. However, some sociologists such as the right realist Charles Murray argue that his points are sound in their evidence as the underclass cause higher levels of crime due to social deprivation and material deprivation, in this case being the latter. Although, other sociological theories also disagree with Cloward and Ohlin's views, or at least propose certain flaws with his logic. One such theory is the Marxist view of Althusser who proposes that crime is not the sole responsibility of a subculture alone, instead being the result of a capitalist society where those who are born poor tend to stay poor and through blue collar work, are exploited by the bourgeoise who use an ideological state apparatus to keep the proletariat supressed. Through this they experience stress due to the unjust exploitation and therefore turn to crime as a form of escapism. In this case, the end goals both result in a deviant career, however the disagreement stems from the cause rather than the general idea itself. In addition, Interactionalist theorists claim that generalisation theories such as this are slowly becoming less applicable to society as we become more individualistic. Other theories such as Functionalism can agree with Cloward and Ohlin, one such person being that of Merton who agrees that crime stems from the stress of being unable to achieve one's original goals, therefore resulting in a deviant career.

### Masculinity and crime
Another theorist who proposes another cause for crime is that the work of Miller who argues that crime can stem from men in female lead households. He claims that this is because men lack a male role model and join gangs in order to prove their masculinity. He concluded that there were six focal concerns of working-class culture, these being: Trouble, where men accept that live involves violence, toughness, where men seek to demonstrate hegemonic masculinity, smartness, which involves looking good and being sharp, excitement, where men seek fun and enjoyment, fate, which they believe that nothing can be done about their lives, and autonomy, where they feel they can do little about their poor circumstances so resent authority. 