
# Prologue
Throughout my time on earth, many ideas have seemed to pass through me. Many of which tend to be somewhat philosophical in nature, one of which I aim to answer "Does the existence of bliss necessitate suffering". Though this question may seem relatively absurd, how can bliss link to the exitance of suffering? Yet in most instances of success withing all forms of literature, it seems that some form of suffering follows not far behind. Though I myself am not any sort of religious, I find that one of the most interesting, and therefore impactful examples of this are the stories of revelation withing the Bible. This chapter covers how God created earth over the period of six days, resting on the seventh. Later the story covers an embodiment of the devil who is deemed to be a metonym of sin. Here the question arises, is God's existence linked with that of Satan? (I tend to use "Satan" and "The devil" interchangeably) I find that this idea comes from the notion that God is an omnibenevolent and omnipotent force whereas the devil seems to be the opposite. Later, the Bible covers a story of Matthew where Jesus, the son of God is killed for the sake of liberation for humanity. Again this theme arises, suffering of one for the sake of others.

This theme is not unique to that of the western religions either, the most popular eastern example being the symbol of yin and yang where two opposite forces are intrinsically linked, often associated with natural forces, however I find it to be relevant here as well.
