## Right realism
Right realist Wilson presented the notion that all crime is the result of rational choice and while many people from deprived backgrounds commit crime, many more do not. He argues that the reason that crime is more prevelar in working class populations is a result of the context surrounding the crime and that it is easier for people to get away with petty crime and therefore are more inclined to do so. Furthermore, you could argue that working class populations have less to loose than their upper class constituents as reputation within the workplace can be difficult to achieve in contrast to that of working classes. Right realists also argue that crime in lower income neighbourhoods can be caused by lack of formal and informal law enforcement. This re-enforcing the idea that the rational choice relating to risk of persecution is taken into account when committing crime. Another right realist thinker, Charles Murray builds on Wilsons idea of criminal working class, coining the term 'underclass' to refer to the subset of people who rely solely on the support provided by the welfare state. He argues that these people are a major cause for crime, blaming it on the idea of an insufficient set of norms and values that leads them to a life of crime and deviance.

## Eval
Many theorists criticise the work of right realists, they argue that Wilson relies on the idea that individuals commit crime based purely on decisions in the moment and fails to take into account the background of the individual. However, his idea of individuality proves to be a strong suit of his study as he acknowledges that behaviour cannot be generalised amongst a population. Although, other theories such as Marxism tend to disagree with this view on crime, they argue that these studies fail to take into account the idea of deprivation, or rather the causes of this deprivation. Furthermore, interactionalist theorists challenge Murray's argument, using the idea of individualism, criticising the fact that Murray comes off as incredibly deterministic in his studies, failing to acknowledge that society has shifted focus to become a more individual focus.

## Left realism
Young criticises right realism's focus on short term solutions to crime and builds his theory on the notion of long term solutions for crime, therefore the question on what causes crime arises. He focuses on the root cause of crime as a hope to resolve crime at its case. He argues that crime has its roots in deprivation, be it material or social, however deprivation itself is not the *cause* of crime. For instance, living standards since 1950's have drastically improved, yet crime rated are much higher than they were back then. He proposes the idea of relative deprivation, the idea that a person may feel inferior to others due to factors such as an economical class difference. This has become much more prevalent in recent years due to the advent and widespread use of media outlets exposing people to those who have a picturesque life and therefore strive to achieve their goals through any means they deem appropriate. Left realists propose that the main solution to crime is to enforce prevention within communities, therefore preventing the initial cause of such crime.

## Eval
Though the ideas of Left realism seem to be concrete in their proofs, the reality of actually evidencing these ideas may prove to be increasingly difficult, leading to the main criticism of left realism. How does one go about proving why a person commits a crime? For instance, when studying riots, it can be especially difficult as some may be doing so as a form of political rebellion while others may be doing so for their own benefit. Furthermore, some interactionalists may dispute the ideas of left realism for not discussing the role of labelling in crime. However, other studies tend to agree, for example Marxists agree that crime is a result of deprivation due to an intrinsically flawed economic system. Though this can be criticised to a certain degree due to left realism being stemmed from Marxist ideologies. Though, this is to say that the main benefit of left realist thinking is that it accounts for both macro and micro within societal deviance. Also, the criticism that the solution to crime can be exceedingly costly initially is softened by the notion that the result will mean that society will spend less overall after the high initial cost due to lower crime rates. Another perspective that has a similar idea about the origin of crime is the minds who proposed the subcultural perspective who argue that crime can be caused by ideas cultivated within a subculture.

## Subcultural perspective 
The ideas of the subcultural perspective were created as a way to explain the delinquency rates of lower-class males who were members of teenage gangs. This study, as can be seen within the name, states that criminal gangs form as a result of their situation withing society, using them as a form of escapism from their own failure within traditional society. The first sociologist who argued this perspective was the mind of Cohen who observed gag delinquency  in inner-city areas of America. From his studies, he concluded that these groups of boys were caused by a failure to reach society's goals, suffering from what he called 'status frustration' similar to Murray's idea of NEETs

## Eval
One major strength provided by the subcultural perspective is that it can explain the existence of non-utilitarian crime that other theories fail to cover. Such crimes can be explained by the desire for status and respect within gangs. However, Interactionalists argue that labelling serves a significant role that the theory fails to address and how crime is not always caused by inferiority or failure in society. However, one theory that can be argued to agree to a point are the ideas of functionalists such as the work of Murray who argues that crime can arise from an improper set of norms and valued that stem from a lack of role model such as a lack of father figure. Other theories also agree that crime can stem from the feeling of exploitation or failure in society. One such theory being Marxism that argues that the nature of capitalism promotes crime.

## Marxism
Marxists such as Gordon argue that the nature of capitalism is crimogenic due to how it exploits the proletariat class to benefit the bourgeoise causing the lower classes to experience status frustration that is amplified by the existence of media that pushes the idea of inferiority through coverage of the bourgeoise. Bonger who applied the study in Europe found that capitalism tends to bring out egoism within people, combining this with the idea that capitalism intrinsically supports greed, it drives people towards crime to achieve what they cannot through crime and deviance. 

## Eval
Marxist ideologies are most commonly criticised for relying on a theory that was proposed during the advent of the industrial revolution and therefore is outdated. Although, this can be disproven as Marxist Bonger found that the basic idea still proves relevant within modern society. However, others argue that Marxism focuses too much on generalisations and fails to acknowledge that not all motivation for crime is caused by the economic system. For instance, some people commit crime as a political message. Right realist thinkers Cohen and Felson argue that people commit crime as a rational choice and not due to external factors implied by Marxists. Neo-Marxism, a theory that builds on the ideas of traditional Marxism, agree with the argument that crime is a direct result of a capitalist society, however they also focus on more micro, individualistic factors.

## Overall Eval
Overall, the topic of social class and its relation to crime is a heavily discussed topic with theories such as functionalism with minds such as that of Merton who argue that lower social classes commit crime due to strain leading to anomie. Though other theories such as interactionalism where minds such as that of Goffman argue that the act of labelling is what causes crime, and linked with Cohen's idea of a deviancy amplification spiral. They argue that crime is not directly caused by social class, rather the act of labelling those who are members of these lower classes causes deviance in the first place. However, one theory that blames social class entirely is Marxism and theorists such as Gordon who claim that capitalism and its class based system is inherently crimogenic and the reason for the prevalence of working class crime is due to a rational response to their exploitation. In addition, Box provides the notion that crime is committed by all social classes, however when committed by the upper classes, crime is labelled differently. For instance, when leniency leads to harm or death, it is not labelled as 'murder' rather taking another, more ambiguous name that results in less consequence. One example of this is the Tokaimura powerplant incident where negligence lead to 2 deaths and the evacuation of all residents. Yet, no serious consequences arose from the incident. Though, other theorists such as right realist thinker Murray argue that it is the fault of those in the lower classes that crime is more prevalent as there are many people that rely solely on the existence of the welfare state to provide for them, resulting in a lack of proper norms and values due to a lack of a male role model. This results in a deviant career and higher crime rates.

