
Subcultural theories discuss how crime and deviance can be caused or not caused by several factors relating to the unique norms and values of certain individuals. It discusses how the macro that includes behaviours of society as a whole and micro to analyse the behaviours at an individual level can lead to prolonged or political crime/deviance.


### Cohen
Cohen's study states that crime in young men is due to a failure in reaching society's goals, therefore resorting to things such as theft to achieve material wealth. He calls this state of being 'Status frustration' similar to what are described as NEETs. However, he also argues that this frustration is not only for material gain, but also frustration with society itself as evidenced by acts such as vandalism or destruction of goods. He claims that this is a result of failure at school, causing the boys to search for another form of validation in the form of a gangs. Within such gangs they develop a strong set of gang values, which are values opposed to those of the greater society. 

### Evaluation
Cohen's view on crime and deviance prove beneficial as it can explain crimes that don't have clear motives. It is also useful when evaluating group crimes as a whole, helping to describe the shared subcultural behaviours in criminal gangs. However, Cohen's view falls short in several different fields, for example it refuses to acknowledge the existence or behaviours of female criminal gangs, only explaining male lead gangs. Although, Miller would disagree as he claims that men commit crime to prove masculinity instead of proving trying to gain social status. Functionalist Murray would agree with Cohen as he argues that this type of crime is causes by the rise of NEETs searching for external validation as they fail to do so through traditional methods within education or employment. Other functionalist Durkheim would claim that not all crime is necessarily bad as it can act as an agent of change within a society. 


### Cloward and Ohlin
Cloward and Ohlin initially seem to agree that working class boys use crime as a form of escapism from their failures in society. However, they disagree with Cohen in the sense that he doesn't explain why different gangs respond differently and specialise in different forms of delinquency. They further developed this idea with their own views, developing specialised areas of crime within gangs. This includes the criminal subculture which uses crime to obtain material wealth. These types of gangs tend to emerge in areas of already established crime where the adults act as criminal models for the younger generation. The next type is the conflict subculture in which participants specialise in violence especially with other gangs. These groups often emerge in areas with complete lack of opportunities, whether it be criminal or legitimate. He also claims the retreatist subculture where members of these gangs partake in drug dealing and hustling. These subcultures form when youths 'retreat' into these areas as they cannot achieve success in either criminal or traditional society. 

### Evaluation
While Cloward and Ohlin propose what seems to be a sound evaluation, upon further evaluation seems to be somewhat flawed as in practicality, gangs can partake in more that one of the aforementioned sub categories, for example drugs and violence often go hand in hand, with one causing the other respectively. However, some sociologists such as the right realist Charles Murray argue that his points are sound in their evidence as the underclass cause higher levels of crime due to social deprivation and material deprivation, in this case being the latter. Although, other sociological theories also disagree with Cloward and Ohlin's views, or at least propose certain flaws with his logic. One such theory is the Marxist view of Althusser who proposes that crime is not the sole responsibility of a subculture alone, instead being the result of a capitalist society where those who are born poor tend to stay poor and through blue collar work, are exploited by the bourgeoise who use an ideological state apparatus to keep the proletariat supressed. Through this they experience stress due to the unjust exploitation and therefore turn to crime as a form of escapism. In this case, the end goals both result in a deviant career, however the disagreement stems from the cause rather than the general idea itself. In addition, Interactionalist theorists claim that generalisation theories such as this are slowly becoming less applicable to society as we become more individualistic. Other theories such as Functionalism can agree with Cloward and Ohlin, one such person being that of Merton who agrees that crime stems from the stress of being unable to achieve one's original goals, therefore resulting in a deviant career.

### Masculinity and crime
Another theorist who proposes another cause for crime is that the work of Miller who argues that crime can stem from men in female lead households. He claims that this is because men lack a male role model and join gangs in order to prove their masculinity. He concluded that there were six focal concerns of working-class culture, these being: Trouble, where men accept that live involves violence, toughness, where men seek to demonstrate hegemonic masculinity, smartness, which involves looking good and being sharp, excitement, where men seek fun and enjoyment, fate, which they believe that nothing can be done about their lives, and autonomy, where they feel they can do little about their poor circumstances so resent authority.

### Evaluation
Sociologist Connell developed the idea of 'Hegemonic masculinity' where men in society strive for ideas of dominance. However, he claims that though not all men can achieve his idea of a hegemonic man, most men at least strive to achieve this goal. For the sake of this argument, Connell would agree that men who fail to achieve their idea of hegemony may instead turn to acts of deviance or gain gratification through joining a gang. Another sociologist who aligns with these views is Messerschmidt who proposes that men commit crime as a resource for 'doing masculinity'  meaning that they turn to crime do demonstrate alternative means of power and control, be it through independent crime or through membership of a gang similar to Millers ideas. However, many sociologists also tend to disagree with Miller as they argue that his claims are exceedingly deterministic or there are other reasons that men commit crime. His argument also lacks reasoning for females to commit crime. Left realists such as Lea and Young suggest that masculinity is not always the cause of crime instead stemming from deprivation and marginalisation instead. 

### Murray
Sociologist Charles Murray is a right realist who coined the term 'underclass' this term is used to represent a section of the population solely reliant on the money provided by the welfare state and who live in families without a father figure. He argued that the formation of this subculture has raised children who disregard the usual norms and values of society due to a lack of proper parental figures, therefore leading them down a path of crime and deviance. He criticises the existence of single parent families, claiming that a boy raised in a household without a father figure is more likely to end up as a criminal in the future due to not having a male role model to follow.

### Evaluation
Many sociologists tend to criticise his views, for example Marxists would argue that Murray blames victims rather than the cause of their situations, and the state they they are in has many other contributing factors rather than just laziness, therefore the notion that the underclass commits more crime is purely caused by financial injustice leading to acts such as theft to accommodate for their situation. In addition to this, Interactionalist argue that society as a whole has become more individualistic, therefore Murray's belief that an entire subset of people all act in a similar manor is purely ideological and when applied to greater society, falls apart. Neo-Marxists such as Gilroy would argue that people, especially those of black minority backgrounds, is committed to rebel against a corrupt system, rather than criminal behaviour being caused by an improper set of norms and values as Murray argues.


### Overall evaluation
Overall, the advent of subcultural explanations of crime helped to build a scaffold on how and why people commit crime. For instance, Cohen's study was immensely significant as it marked a new way of thinking about crime in general, arguing that people commit crime due to their position in society. Though this view helped to shape future studies, it also has several flaws as, with most subcultural explanations, it has been criticises for being overly deterministic. Though there are also some who align their views with Cohen and build upon them, one such person being Charles Murray who argues that the existence of a welfare state bred a subset of society who rely solely on it benefits. He argues that these people tend to commit crime due to a set of values that differ from that of traditional society due to not having a significant role model to look up to. Though, this view also tends to be relatively deterministic, Marxists such as Althusser argue that these crimes are a result of suppression by a capitalist society leading them to develop false class consciousness. Another view that focuses specifically on the criminal acts committed by men is that of Miller who coined the term 'hegemonic masculinity' and the idea that men tend to strive for a position of dominance in society, doing so through any means they see fit. Feminists also somewhat agree with the view that men strive for a position of dominance, however sociologists like the minds of Oakley argue that the crime is not limited to the lower classes, instead middle class crime goes underreported, for example domestic violence in middle class households tends to go underreported in most statistics. Other arguments that build on the idea of 'hegemonic masculinity' is the idea by sociologists Cloward and Ohlin who propose that men seek dominance in gangs, using them to escape from their failure to achieve in traditional society.